The Shores of the Cosmic Ocean 

Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Where is the way to the dwelling 
of light, And where is the place of darkness . . . ? 

- The Book of Job 

Welcome to the planet Earth - a place of blue nitrogen skies, oceans of liquid water, 
cool forests and soft meadows, a world positively rippling with life. In the cosmic 
perspective it is, as I have said, poignantly beautiful and rare; but it is also, for the moment, 
unique.

One Voice in the Cosmic fugue 

F 

Big Bang 
radiant fireball 
Chaos 
awesome 

I had not discovered a macro-mutation. I had merely stumbled upon another lovely adaptation in nature, itself the product of micromutation and natural selection. 

I am bidden to surrender myself to the Lord of the Worlds. 

He it is who created you of the dust . . . 

- The Koran, Sura 40 

Human beings grew up in forests; we have a natural affinity for them. How lovely a 
tree is, straining toward the sky. Its leaves harvest sunlight to photosynthesize, so trees 
compete by shadowing their neighbors. If you look closely you can often see two trees 
pushing and shoving with languid grace. Trees are great and beautiful machines, powered 
by sunlight, taking in water from the ground and carbon dioxide from the air, converting 
these materials into food for their use and ours. The plant uses the carbohydrates it makes 
as an energy source to go about its planty business. And we animals, who are ultimately 
parasites on the plants, steal the carbohydrates so we can go about our business. 


The Harmony of Worlds 

astrologers 
astronomers 
parties 
scientist, I am sometimes 
"Are you a Gemini?" 
success, one in twelve 
"What sign are you?" 
rare 
gold 
supernova explosions. 
Congress, 
Mars Rover? 

But then, mysticism and superstition 
what an empirical science. 
The Sun and stars control the seasons, food, warmth. The Moon control the tides, the life cycles of many animals, and 
a passionate species 
devoted to having children.


Heaven and Hell 

he doors of heaven and music are adjacent and identical. 

- Nikos Kazantzakis, The Last Temptation of Christ 

The Earth is a lovely place. Things change, but slowly. We can lead 
a full life and never personally encounter a natural test tube. And 
so we become complacent, relaxed, unconcerned. But in the history of Nature, the record is 
clear. Worlds have been. Even we humans have achieved the dubious technical 
distinction of being able to make our own music, both intentional and inadvertent. On 
the landscapes of other planets where the records of the past have been preserved, there is 
abundant evidence of the Cosmos. It is all a matter of time scale. An event that 
would be unthinkable in a hundred years may be inevitable in a hundred million. Even on 
the Earth, even in our own century, events have occurred. 

In the early morning hours of June 30, 1908, in Central Siberia, a giant acid was 
seen moving across the sky. Where it touched the horizon, an enormous process 
took place. 


Blues for a Red Planet 

The landscape is stark and red and lovely: boulders thrown out in the creation of a 
crater somewhere over the horizon, small sand dunes, rocks that have been repeatedly 
covered and uncovered by drifting dust, plumes of fine-grained material blown about by the 
winds. Where did the rocks come from? How much sand has been blown by wind? What 
must the previous history of the planet have been to create sheared rocks, buried boulders, 
polygonal gouges in the ground? What are the rocks made of? The same materials as the 
sand? Is the sand merely pulverized rock or something else? Why is the sky pink? What is 
the air made of? How fast does the wind blow? Are there marsquakes? How does the 
atmospheric pressure and the appearance of the landscape change with the seasons?
